# The Use of Tactile Information in Digital Games: A study of case applied to Pong game
## Abstract
Games are used for purposes other than entertainment. However, even with all the popularity, problems still occur, such as (i) the player not being able to receive game feedback and (ii) not being able to distinguish the game responses. This work aims to address these two problems in the context of accessibility and study the potential of using a technology in relation to traditional event communication techniques in digital games. In this work, a prototype of a vibrating wristband capable of communicating vibration patterns corresponding to events in a digital game to the user was proposed and developed. The game chosen to be integrated with the technology and used in tests with end users was the Pong game and had 5 of its events mapped into 5 different vibration patterns. The system underwent a human-computer interaction assessment by an observation method with 10 potential end users to obtain preliminary data on its acceptance by the target audience, everyone. Overall, the participants’ perception was positive. The considerations made by the participants in the physical and visual aspect were mainly in terms of size and ergonomics of the prototype developed. From the analysis of the results obtained, it can be concluded that there is an opportunity for the industry, not only the game industry, to make better use of the concept of tactile feedback for the transmission of information, either through the creation of specific purpose devices such as the presented in this work or through the extension of the functionalities of the already existing and widely used devices.
#### Keywords: Tactile Feedback. Digital Games. Wearable Computing
